Sorting Algorithms 
The TreapSort algorithm is designed to specifically work with the Treap structure, giving it an O(n log n) complexity in terms of the average case. In general, this method consists of two parts: 
• Inserting all n elements into the empty treap 
• Performing an in-order tree traversal, which yields sorted elements in O(n) 
Each insertion step takes O(log n) in terms of average case complexity, thus, the whole algorithm takes expected O(n log n) time. 
We can see that inserting elements into a treap preserves both binary search tree ordering (due to keys) and balance of nodes, which is achieved through random assignment of priorities for each element. As a result, even if we provide treap-sort with already sorted data, its structure wouldn’t be changed dramatically. 
To assess the performance of TreapSort algorithm in comparison to other methods, we conducted some tests of the algorithm for n ranging between 100 and 10,000 elements, using four types of inputs (randomly generated, sorted, reverse sorted, partially sorted). The test results are available in Tables 1, 2, 3 below: 
  
 //Graphs shown here
   
From the results obtained, it follows that this sorting algorithm is extremely consistent across all test cases. One of the significant benefits that TreapSort has in relation to other sorting algorithms, like Quick Sort and Merge Sort, is its independence from the order of input data. Namely, Quick Sort algorithm. Despite the fact that it usually has O(nlogn) complexity in the average case, Quick Sort may exhibit very poor results (up to O(n^2)) if its inputs are partially or fully sorted. 
Another advantage of TreapSort lies in the fact that, unlike Merge Sort, it is not guaranteed to be O(n log n), meaning it can sort much quicker as shown in the data sets above. It is also not required to allocate extra memory of size O(n), as opposed to what the Merge Sort algorithm does. Merge Sort benefits from cache optimization, whereas TreapSort gets almost no benefits from cache optimization as it is not needed. 
However, TreapSort is not without weaknesses. The main disadvantage of this algorithm, in comparison to Merge Sort, is the fact that it uses memory more loosely due to node objects and their connections via pointers. Due to this feature, this algorithm may not be able to achieve the same performance that can be achieved by algorithms utilizing contiguous arrays. In general though, it works quite effectively and is a standout sorting algorithm in select situations. 
